README.md, before:

[![Vercel](https://therealsujitk-vercel-badge.vercel.app/?app=phonebook-filter-by-age)](https://phonebook-filter-by-age.vercel.app/) [![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/DoctorDerek/phonebook-filter-by-age/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=7VDUW7TGZN)](https://codecov.io/gh/DoctorDerek/phonebook-filter-by-age) [![Build Status](https://app.travis-ci.com/DoctorDerek/phonebook-filter-by-age.svg?token=TMyceqi9yYWX3rDHdqVD&branch=main)](https://app.travis-ci.com/DoctorDerek/phonebook-filter-by-age)

# ☎️ Phonebook "Filter by Age" App - Next.js 13 + React 18 + Tailwind CSS + XState + CRUD Operations

# 👀 View Production Build at https://phonebook-filter-by-age.vercel.app/

This is a simple phonebook app that supports CRUD operations (create, read, update, delete) and "filter by age" functionality.

The app provides a form where you can enter a name, birthday, mailing address,phone number, and email for each phonebook entry.

Below you will find the complete feature set, a discussion section, and my technical journal.

## Tech Stack

1. ✅ Next.js 13
1. ✅ React 18
1. ✅ Tailwind CSS
1. ✅ TypeScript
1. ✅ XState finite state machines
1. ✅ `localStorage` used as database
1. ✅ Vercel for deployment
1. ✅ TravisCI for CI/CD
1. ✅ Jest + React Testing Library
1. ✅ ESLint + Prettier + Husky Git Hooks

## Feature List

### ✅ === DONE

### 🌠 === TODO

1. ✅ Used Next.js version 13.0.3 with React 18.2.0 and Tailwind CSS 3.2.4.
1. ✅ Deployed Next.js production build to Vercel with CI/CD at Travis CI.
1. ✅ Established engineering best practices:
   - Prettier, ESLint, Husky (Git Hooks), `tsconfig.json`, TypeScript Import Sorter, XState
1. ✅ Implemented XState finite state machine to handle application state.
1. ✅ Built accessible dialog (modal) using Headless UI and Tailwind CSS.
1. ✅ Added various tooltips that appear on hover to improve user experience.
1. ✅ Enabled CREATE, UPDATE, DELETE, and RESET actions using React Hook Form.
1. ✅ Sorted data by last name for a consistent user experience in the app.
1. 🌠 Matched design document with READ and search by last name functionality.
1. 🌠 Add unit test coverage for entire app with Jest & React Testing Library.

## Discussion Section

1. 🌠 XState takes the place of React Query in the app. The benefit of XState is the finite set of states, without additional testing.
2. 🌠 It would be easy to connect any database without affecting the frontend by simplying replacing the `localStorage` calls in XState.
3. 🌠 The app isn't particularly well-suited to GraphQL given the CRUD model, simplistic data objects, and extremely small data size.
4. 🌠 We don't handle phone validation at all, but we would probably want some type of validation in production, as long as it's reliable.
5. 🌠 The entire codebase could use extensive refactoring, since everything is simply built in the homepage (`@/pages/index.tsx`).
6. 🌠 The app is difficult to test with React Testing Library without refactoring, because everything is closely coupled with XState.
7. 🌠 Docker is unnecessary for this project, and I find it almost always reduces the performance of Next.js vs. deploying at Vercel.
8. 🌠 Material UI has some benefits, but it can be hard to customize unless the designer uses it, while Tailwind is very easy to use.
   - See [https://github.com/DoctorDerek/calendar-appointments](https://github.com/DoctorDerek/calendar-appointments) for an example from my portfolio using Material UI in depth.
9. 🌠 Like with many projects, the design document left out certain features: RESET, dialogs (modals), hover styles, and animations.
10. 🌠 Because of the combination of `localStorage` with XState, we have auto-save functionality that supports refreshing the page.
11. 🌠 "Consider how interactions might occur on a touch screen vs standard keyboard / mouse"
12. 🌠 "Consider best practices in regard to accessibility."
13. 🌠 "We have comps for mobile and desktop, but the list needs to look good at any width. We'll leave the details of the in-between views up to you."

## Test Coverage Report - Jest & React Testing Library

### `yarn test`

Launches the test runner and generates code coverage report.

### `yarn test:watch`

Launches the test runner in the interactive watch mode.

## Technical Journal

- `0.1.1` New app: create next-app w/TypeScript + Yarn 3
- `0.2.0` Added all best practices & basic dependencies
- `0.3.0` Create XState finite state machine for app
- `0.4.0` Add initial (default) values and RESET action
- `0.5.0` Implement design of app from design document
- `0.6.0` Build out the search filter and DELETE action
- `0.7.0` Make the dialog (modal) to handle CRUD actions
- `0.8.0` Use React Hook Form to handle dialog actions
- `0.9.0` Enable CREATE, UPDATE, DELETE, RESET actions
- `0.9.1` Finish the discussion section in the `README.md`
- `1.0.0` Upload photos and migrate to Next 13's `@/app`
- ⬆️ https://github.com/DoctorDerek/phonebook-app
- 🧠 Features after this point are the "filter by age" app
- 🔽 https://github.com/DoctorDerek/phonebook-filter-by-age
- `1.1.0` Refactor 15 components & fix photo deletion bug
- `1.2.0` Extract `<ContactCard>` components and TDD test
- `1.3.0` Match `<ContactCard>` to design & pass tests
- `1.4.0` Implement accessible mobile navigation menu
- `1.5.0` Fix the mobile design to match design document
- `1.6.0` Enact the "filter by age" logic and dropdown

Commit message:

feat(release): `1.7.0` Fix the CREATE & UPDATE actions with new fields

README.md, after:

[![Vercel](https://therealsujitk-vercel-badge.vercel.app/?app=phonebook-filter-by-age)](https://phonebook-filter-by-age.vercel.app/) [![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/DoctorDerek/phonebook-filter-by-age/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=7VDUW7TGZN)](https://codecov.io/gh/DoctorDerek/phonebook-filter-by-age) [![Build Status](https://app.travis-ci.com/DoctorDerek/phonebook-filter-by-age.svg?token=TMyceqi9yYWX3rDHdqVD&branch=main)](https://app.travis-ci.com/DoctorDerek/phonebook-filter-by-age)

# ☎️ Phonebook "Filter by Age" App - Next.js 13 + React 18 + Tailwind CSS + XState + CRUD Operations

# 👀 View Production Build at https://phonebook-filter-by-age.vercel.app/

This is a simple phonebook app that supports CRUD operations (create, read, update, delete) and "filter by age" functionality.

The app provides a form where you can enter a name, birthday, mailing address,phone number, and email for each phonebook entry.

Below you will find the complete feature set, a discussion section, and my technical journal.

## Tech Stack

1. ✅ Next.js 13
1. ✅ React 18
1. ✅ Tailwind CSS
1. ✅ TypeScript
1. ✅ XState finite state machines
1. ✅ `localStorage` used as database
1. ✅ Vercel for deployment
1. ✅ TravisCI for CI/CD
1. ✅ Jest + React Testing Library
1. ✅ ESLint + Prettier + Husky Git Hooks

## Feature List

1. ✅ Used Next.js version 13.0.3 with React 18.2.0 and Tailwind CSS 3.2.4.
1. ✅ Deployed Next.js production build to Vercel with CI/CD at Travis CI.
1. ✅ Established engineering best practices:
   - Prettier, ESLint, Husky (Git Hooks), `tsconfig.json`, TypeScript Import Sorter, XState
1. ✅ Implemented XState finite state machine to handle application state.
1. ✅ Built accessible dialog (modal) using Headless UI and Tailwind CSS.
1. ✅ Added various tooltips that appear on hover to improve user experience.
1. ✅ Enabled CREATE, UPDATE, DELETE, and RESET actions using React Hook Form.
1. ✅ Sorted data by last name for a consistent user experience in the app.
1. ✅ Matched design document with READ and filter by age range functionality.
1. ✅ Add unit test coverage for the app using Jest & React Testing Library.

## Discussion Section

1. ✅ We use XState finite state machines. The benefit of XState is the finite set of states, without additional testing.
2. ✅ It would be easy to connect any database without affecting the frontend by simplying replacing the `localStorage` calls in XState.
3. ✅ We don't handle phone or email validation at all, but we would probably want some type of reliable validation in production.
4. ✅ The entire codebase could use more testing, which is made easier by the large number of small, easily-testable components.
5. ✅ Like with many projects, the design document left out certain features: RESET, dialogs (modals), hover styles, and animations.
6. ✅ Because of the combination of `localStorage` with XState, we have auto-save functionality that supports refreshing the page.
7. ✅ Since the only major touch screen interaction difference is swiping, we shouldn't have much differences with desktop vs. mobile.
8. ✅ Accessibility has been baked into the app, but we might find some issues when writing tests or using the app with the keyboard.
9. 🌠 "We have comps for mobile and desktop, but the list needs to look good at any width. We'll leave the details of the in-between views up to you."

## Test Coverage Report - Jest & React Testing Library

### `yarn test`

Launches the test runner and generates code coverage report.

### `yarn test:watch`

Launches the test runner in the interactive watch mode.

## Technical Journal

- `0.1.1` New app: create next-app w/TypeScript + Yarn 3
- `0.2.0` Added all best practices & basic dependencies
- `0.3.0` Create XState finite state machine for app
- `0.4.0` Add initial (default) values and RESET action
- `0.5.0` Implement design of app from design document
- `0.6.0` Build out the search filter and DELETE action
- `0.7.0` Make the dialog (modal) to handle CRUD actions
- `0.8.0` Use React Hook Form to handle dialog actions
- `0.9.0` Enable CREATE, UPDATE, DELETE, RESET actions
- `0.9.1` Finish the discussion section in the `README.md`
- `1.0.0` Upload photos and migrate to Next 13's `@/app`
- ⬆️ https://github.com/DoctorDerek/phonebook-app
- 🧠 Features after this point are the "filter by age" app
- 🔽 https://github.com/DoctorDerek/phonebook-filter-by-age
- `1.1.0` Refactor 15 components & fix photo deletion bug
- `1.2.0` Extract `<ContactCard>` components and TDD test
- `1.3.0` Match `<ContactCard>` to design & pass tests
- `1.4.0` Implement accessible mobile navigation menu
- `1.5.0` Align the mobile design with design document
- `1.6.0` Enact the "filter by age" logic and dropdown
- `1.7.0` Fix the CREATE & UPDATE actions with new fields
